Release Channels
================

There are two different release channels that can be selected. The *stable*
channel is the more stable one, and is introduced by the change in release
process in February, 2017. The *candidate* channel contains the usual
bi-weekly release from the development branch.

There are a number of trade-offs between the two:

=========================  =========================  ======================
\                                   Stable                   Candidate
=========================  =========================  ======================
**Stability**              More Stable                More Experimental
**Features & Fixes**       About two weeks behind     Latest
**Auto Upgrades**          Optional                   Mandatory [#]_
**Anon. Usage Reporting**  Optional                   Mandatory
**Support**                Fully supported            Fully supported [#]_
=========================  =========================  ======================

Run the candidate channel if you are technically savvy and enjoy new
features. Run the stable channel if you want to minimize the amount of
surprises you might run into.

.. [#] Auto upgrades are not enabled in builds delivered via APT or Snap.
.. [#] Yes, there is intentionally no difference here.

Life Cycle
----------

Every new feature and bugfix begins its life in the development branch,
``master``. Every two weeks the current ``master`` becomes a *release
candidate*. This version is identified by "-rc" in it's name, for example
"0.14.35-rc.1".

Those running the candidate channel will update to this release candidate.
During the next twelve days it receives testing "in the wild". Any new,
serious issues that are discovered are fixed, and new release candidates
"0.14.35-rc.2" etc are created as needed. These release candidates do not
include any new features or non-essential bugfixes added to ``master`` in the
meantime.

Once the release candidate is deemed stable, typically after twelve days, it
becomes a *stable release* and is promoted to the stable channel. Stable
releases are given version numbers without any suffix - "0.14.35". Unless
any serious issues were discovered, this release is exactly identical to the
"-rc.1" release candidated twelve days prior.

The cycle then restarts two days later with a new release candidate based on
the current ``master`` branch.

How to Choose
-------------

Built-in / GitHub
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For releases obtained from Syncthing.net or GitHub, with built-in upgrade
functionality, the choice is made in the "Settings" dialog. Set the
"Automatic upgrade" drop down to either "Stable releases only" or "Stable
releases and release candidates".

APT (Debian)
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The choice between stable and candidate is done in the APT source
configuration. Please see `our APT instructions
<https://apt.syncthing.net/>`__.

Snap
~~~~

The ``snap`` tool can be told to install the candidate channel, but defaults
to the stable channel. See the Snap documentation for detail.

Some Other Distribution Channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you are getting packages from your Linux distribution, NAS vendor, etc.,
then you should be getting the *stable* channel. If you get a release
candidate you should complain to your distributor or vendor and refer them
to this page.

FAQ
---

Which bugfixes trigger a new release candidate?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Those that fix a regression since the last release. Lets say the current
release is 0.14.35. We release 0.14.36-rc.1 and discover a new problem that
is not present in 0.14.35. This gets fixed and we release a new 0.14.36-rc.2
candidate. However, if we discover and fix a problem that's been present
since 0.14.20, this fix will instead be incorporated in the next regular
cycle.

What's the difference between the latest candidate and the following stable release?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Nothing. If we release 0.14.36-rc.1 and no serious problems are discovered
during the next twelve days, this is the exact software that will become
0.14.36 for general consumption. Since the version number is different it
requires a rebuild and the release signatures / hashes are different. If you
are on the candidate channel, your Syncthing will "upgrade" from
0.14.36-rc.1 to 0.14.36 when we make the release. This is normal.

What's with the the "twelve days" thing?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We typically release every two weeks. Giving a release candidate twelve days
to soak means that we have two days to relax and observe after the release
before the next release candidate is due.

It's not a number that is set in stone. The stable release may be delayed if
problems are discovered and we release updated release candidates. In that
case the next release candidate may also be delayed to bring us back in sync
with the weeks.

Who decided on "every two weeks"?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:user:`calmh` did, as a reasonable balance between getting releases out
quickly, not tiring our users with too frequent updates, and not burning out
due to juggling releases all the time. Introducing this scheme effectively
doubles the amount of releases that happen in the normal case. The frequency
may change in the future.
