Syncthing Discovery Server
==========================

Synopsis
--------

::

    stdiscosrv [--debug] [--http] [--compression] [--version]
               [--cert=<file>] [--key=<string>]
               [--listen=<address>] [--metrics-listen=<address>]
               [--db-dir=<string>] [--db-flush-interval=<string>]


Description
-----------

Syncthing relies on a discovery server to find peers on the internet. Anyone
can run a discovery server and point Syncthing installations to it. The
Syncthing project also maintains a global cluster for public use.

Options
-------

.. cmdoption:: --debug

    Enable debug output.

.. cmdoption:: --http

    Listen on HTTP (behind an HTTPS proxy).

.. cmdoption:: --version

    Print the current version number and exit.

.. cmdoption:: --compression

    Enable GZIP compression of HTTP responses.

.. cmdoption:: --cert=<file>

    Certificate file (default "./cert.pem"). Unused in --http mode.

.. cmdoption:: --key=<file>

    Key file (default "./key.pem"). Unused in --http mode.

.. cmdoption:: --listen=<address>

    Listen address (default ":8443").

.. cmdoption:: --metrics-listen=<address>

    Prometheus compatible metrics endpoint listen address (default
    disabled).

.. cmdoption:: --db-dir=<string>

    Database directory, where data is stored (default ".").

.. cmdoption:: --db-flush-interval=<string>

    Interval at which the in-memory database is flushed to disk (default
    "5m").

Pointing Syncthing at Your Discovery Server
-------------------------------------------

By default, Syncthing uses a number of global discovery servers, signified by
the entry ``default`` in the list of discovery servers. To make Syncthing use
your own instance of stdiscosrv, open up Syncthing's web GUI. Go to settings,
Global Discovery Server and add stdiscosrv's host address to the comma-separated
list, e.g. ``https://disco.example.com:8443/``. Note that stdiscosrv uses port
8443 by default. For stdiscosrv to be available over the internet with a dynamic
IP address, you will need a dynamic DNS service.

.. deprecated:: v0.14.44
   Prior versions need ``/v2/`` appended to the discovery
   server address, e.g. ``https://disco.example.com:8443/v2/``.

If you wish to use *only* your own discovery server, remove the ``default``
entry from the list.

Setting Up
----------

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

This guide assumes that you have already set up Syncthing. If you
haven't yet, head over to :ref:`getting-started` first.

Installing
~~~~~~~~~~

Go to `releases <https://github.com/syncthing/discosrv/releases>`__ and
download the file appropriate for your operating system. Unpacking it will
yield a binary called ``stdiscosrv`` (or ``stdiscosrv.exe`` on Windows).
Start this in whatever way you are most comfortable with; double clicking
should work in any graphical environment. At first start, stdiscosrv will
generate certificate files and database in the current directory unless
given flags to the contrary.

The discovery server can also be obtained through apt, the Debian/Ubuntu package
manager. Recent releases can be found at syncthing's
`apt repository <https://apt.syncthing.net/>`_. The name of the package is
syncthing-discosrv.

Configuring
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::
   If you are running an instance of Syncthing on the discovery server,
   you must either add that instance to other devices using a static
   address or bind the discovery server and Syncthing instances to
   different IP addresses.

Certificates
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The discovery server provides service over HTTPS. To ensure secure connections
from clients there are three options:

- Use a CA-signed certificate pair for the domain name you will use for the
  discovery server. This is like any other HTTPS website; clients will
  authenticate the server based on its certificate and domain name.

- Use any certificate pair and let clients authenticate the server based on
  its "device ID" (similar to Syncthing-to-Syncthing authentication). This
  option can be used with the certificate automatically generated by the
  discovery server.

- Pass the ``--http`` flag if the discovery server is behind an SSL-secured
  reverse proxy. See below for configuration.

For the first two options, the discovery server must be given the paths to
the certificate and key at startup. This isn't necessary with the ``http`` flag::

  $ stdiscosrv --cert=/path/to/cert.pem --key=/path/to/key.pem
  Server device ID is 7DDRT7J-UICR4PM-PBIZYL3-MZOJ7X7-EX56JP6-IK6HHMW-S7EK32W-G3EUPQA

The discovery server prints its device ID at startup. In case you are using
a non CA signed certificate, this device ID (fingerprint) must be given to
the clients in the discovery server URL::

  https://disco.example.com:8443/?id=7DDRT7J-UICR4PM-PBIZYL3-MZOJ7X7-EX56JP6-IK6HHMW-S7EK32W-G3EUPQA

Otherwise, the URL will be::

  https://disco.example.com:8443/

Reverse Proxy Setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. versionadded:: 1.8.0

    A new "X-Client-Port" HTTP header was added.

The discovery server can be run behind an SSL-secured reverse proxy. This
allows:

- Use of a subdomain name without requiring a port number added to the URL
- Sharing an SSL certificate with multiple services on the same server

Note that after this configuration, if the proxy uses a valid HTTPS
certificate, **clients should omit the** :code:`?id=...` **parameter from the
discovery server URL on their configuration**. Client-side validation will be
done by checking the visible proxy server's HTTPS certificate. If, however, the
proxy uses a self-signed or somehow invalid certificate, clients must still set
the :code:`?id=...` parameter with the computed hash of the proxy's
certificate. Using such setup is discouraged and is not covered in this page.
Always favour using valid and widely recognised certificates.

Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Run the discovery server using the -http flag: :code:`stdiscosrv -http`.
- SSL certificate/key configured for the reverse proxy.
- The "X-Forwarded-For" HTTP header must be passed through with the client's
  real IP address.
- The "X-Client-Port" HTTP header should be passed through, containing the client's real connection port.
- The "X-SSL-Cert" HTTP header must be passed through with the PEM-encoded
  client SSL certificate. This will be present in POST requests and may be empty
  in GET requests from clients. If you see syncthing-discosrv outputting
  :code:`no certificates` when receiving POST requests, that's because the proxy
  is not passing this header through.
- The proxy must request the client SSL certificate but not require it to be
  signed by a trusted CA.

Nginx
"""""

These lines in the configuration take care of the last four requirements
listed above:

.. code-block:: nginx

    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header X-Client-Port $remote_port;
    proxy_set_header X-SSL-Cert $ssl_client_cert;
    ssl_verify_client optional_no_ca;

The following is a complete example Nginx configuration file. With this setup,
clients can use https://discovery.example.com as the discovery server URL in
the Syncthing settings.

.. code-block:: nginx

    # HTTP 1.1 support
    proxy_http_version 1.1;
    proxy_buffering off;
    proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
    proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
    proxy_set_header Connection $http_connection;
    proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    proxy_set_header X-Client-Port $remote_port;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
    proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $http_x_forwarded_proto;
    proxy_set_header X-SSL-Cert $ssl_client_cert;
    upstream discovery.example.com {
        # Local IP address:port for discovery server
        server 192.0.2.1:8443;
    }
    server {
            server_name discovery.example.com;
            listen 80;
            access_log /var/log/nginx/access.log vhost;
            return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
    }
    server {
            server_name discovery.example.com;

            listen 443 ssl http2;
            access_log /var/log/nginx/access.log vhost;

            # Mozilla Intermediate configuration (https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Server_Side_TLS)
            ssl_protocols TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3;
            ssl_ciphers ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305:ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305:DHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:DHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384;
            ssl_prefer_server_ciphers off;
            ssl_session_tickets off;
            ssl_session_timeout 5m;
            ssl_session_cache shared:SSL:50m;
            ssl_verify_client optional_no_ca;

            # OCSP stapling
            ssl_stapling on;
            ssl_stapling_verify on;

            # Certificates
            ssl_certificate /etc/nginx/certs/discovery.example.com.crt;
            ssl_certificate_key /etc/nginx/certs/discovery.example.com.key;

            # curl https://ssl-config.mozilla.org/ffdhe2048.txt > /path/to/dhparam
            ssl_dhparam /path/to/dhparam;

            # HSTS (ngx_http_headers_module is required) (63072000 seconds)
            add_header Strict-Transport-Security "max-age=63072000" always;

            location / {
                    proxy_pass http://discovery.example.com;
            }
    }

An example of automating the SSL certificates and reverse-proxying the Discovery
Server and Syncthing using Nginx, `Let's Encrypt`_ and Docker can be found here_.

.. _Let's Encrypt: https://letsencrypt.org/
.. _here: https://forum.syncthing.net/t/docker-syncthing-and-syncthing-discovery-behind-nginx-reverse-proxy-with-lets-encrypt/6880


Apache
""""""
The following lines must be added to the configuration:

.. code-block:: apache

    SSLProxyEngine On
    SSLVerifyClient optional_no_ca
    RequestHeader set X-SSL-Cert "%{SSL_CLIENT_CERT}s"

The following was observed to not be required at least under
Apache httpd 2.4.38, as the proxy module adds the needed header by default.
If you need to explicitly add the following directive, make sure to issue
:code:`a2enmod remoteip` first. Then, add the following to your Apache httpd
configuration:

.. code-block:: apache

    RemoteIPHeader X-Forwarded-For

Caddy
""""""
The following lines must be added to the Caddyfile:

.. code-block:: caddyfile

    discovery.example.com {
      reverse_proxy 192.0.2.1:8443 {
        header_up X-Forwarded-For {http.request.remote.host}
        header_up X-Client-Port {http.request.remote.port}
        header_up X-Tls-Client-Cert-Der-Base64 {http.request.tls.client.certificate_der_base64}
      }

      tls {
        client_auth {
          mode request
        }
      }
  }

.. code-block:: caddyfile

For more details, see also the recommendations in the
`Reverse Proxy Setup <https://docs.syncthing.net/users/reverseproxy.html>`__
page. Note that that page is directed at setting up a proxy for the
Syncthing web UI. You should do the proper path and port adjustments to proxying
the discovery server and your particular setup.

See Also
--------

:manpage:`syncthing-networking(7)`, :manpage:`syncthing-faq(7)`
